# Industrial-Control-System-Anomaly-Detection-by-Constrained-Devices
This thesis performs an in-depth analysis of anomaly detection for \acp{ICS}. The security of the communication channels in \acp{ICS} is ensured by Secu-Box which uses \ac{SSH} to encrypt the communication and ensure security of industrial communications within \ac{ICS} networks. Furthermore, various anomaly detection techniques are evaluated to choose the best suitable technique for Secu-Box in \ac{ICS}. These various techniques involve five different models: Autoencoder, \ac{OCSVM}, \ac{PCA}, \ac{k-NN}, and Isolation Forest. In order to perform anomaly detection data is generated and collected using the \ac{TEP} simulator. To assess the effectiveness and efficiency of the anomaly detection technique attacks are designed. 

Anomaly detection in this thesis is performed by applying the chosen models to the simulated data. To differentiate between normal and anomalous instances, binary classification is then employed.  Some of the performance metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, \ac{fpr}, and prediction time are calculated to evaluate the performance of the detection technique. The scores of these evaluations are then compared to choose the most appropriate model for Secu-Box in \ac{ICS}. The best model for \ac{ICS} anomaly detection is determined by a comprehensive analysis and comparison of the performance metrics results. A model that performs the best as compared to the other models in terms of accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, and \ac{fpr} while still keeping a  quick prediction time will be chosen as the best suitable model for Secu-Box. By detecting unusual activity at an early stage, necessary actions can be taken to minimize the potential threats. This in turn would ensure improved security and dependability of \ac{ICS} and protects critical infrastructure from potential threats.

This thesis makes a significant contribution to the field in the field of anomaly detection in \ac{ICS} and presents valuable insights to enhance the security of device-to-device communication in industrial networks by detecting anomalies or deviations from the normal behavior of the process. The results broaden the way for future improvements in the development of robust anomaly detection techniques for \ac{ICS} environments, thereby enhancing the detection and protection against cyberattacks on critical infrastructure. 

